So we ended the last video
showing multiple ways to reference a type
from another package.
Let's start work on using import statements
in your class in this video.
So, use a class in your code which
resides in another package,
even a parent package,
you must use one of the mechanisms I described
in the last video, a Fully Qualified Class Name,
which can get tedious,
or one flavour of an import statement.
So, for the following exercises in this video,
I'm going to make IntelliJ less intelligent.
Now, IntelliJ and most IDEs will handle most
of the work of maintaining the correct import statements
required by your code
and it will actually remove
unused or redundant statements.
But, we want to do the opposite,
we want to go back to make it less intelligent,
so you'll see in the menu commands and the menu imports
and this can be very useful in exam
where you won't have the advantage of using an IDE.
So to do that,
we're gonna go up to File
into Settings
and we're going to come down to Editor
going to come down to General.
I am going to select Auto Import.
Now by default,
or if not by default,
what you would hear,
you would normally configure IntelliJ or other IDEs
you would add an unambiguous imports on the fly
and optimise imports on the fly
in other words,
you'd hand over responsibility for importing to the IDE.
But we want to specifically turn that off.
So, if you are using IntelliJ,
do what I am doing there
or do the equivalent in whichever writer you are using.
Alright, next we need to create a new class.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And I am going to create it at the source level.
So again right-clicking on the source folder
and we are just going to call this one TestFQCN.
So no package name in other words.
You are going to paste in some code.
Now this code should compile.
We run it.
Zero surpirses.
Pretty basic.
Now in Java, you don't actually have to
qualify any class in the java.lang package
or use the java.lang import statement.
So, you can see we are using java.lang.string at the moment.
So, let's actually change the code now
removing the fully-qualified class name for string
but also adding a couple of lines of code
to use our VineVegetable class.
Okay so there is the code.
I'll run that now.
So you can see the string class on line 10
isn't using a fully-qualified class name
but other classes such as our VineVegetable class,
because its in another package
has to be qualified or imported.
In this case we are using a
fully qualified class name for VineVegetable.
Right, so let's see a variation
of it using an import statement.
We are going to create another class now.
Right-click source folder,
New, Java Class.
We'll call this one test import
paste in the code.
Alright, so you see from this code,
we're not importing java.lang.string
and that's because its implied.
We are importing garden.vegetable.VineVegetable
as you can see.
And as a result of the import on line seven,
we can use a simple name for VineVegetable
to make the code a little less for both.
If we run this,
we get the appropriate output and everything works fine.
Now, alternatively, you can just use a
type-import-on-demand declaration
for our import statement.
So, I can change VineVegetable to *,
Like so.
And that's now a type import on demand
because I am using the * there.
And actually I think IntelliJ is giving us a hint there
to go back to use single-class-import
but we are ignoring its advice at the moment.
Running that code.
And that still works.
So, when would you use one or the other?
For the most part,
you'll always use a single-type-import declaration
and your IDE would be set to automatically
include the import statement.
However, it's important to know that
the single-type-import declaration,
firstly,
takes precedence on the import-on-demand declaration
and secondly,
will prevent you from creating a class of the same name
in your source file.
So, lets look at both of these.
To do that we need to create a new source file.
For our package again, I am going to right-click the
source file and New, Java Class.
Nursery.vegetable.Vine Vegetable.
And obviously by specifying the package,
we've now got a package nursery.vegetable
and a class VineVegetable in that package.
We'll paste some code in there to replace
what we have just created for VineVegetable
with our nursery.vegetable package.
Now we are going to go back to our test import.
And what I am going to do is come down here,
below the import,
and type import
nursery.vegetable.style.
Semi-colon to finish the line.
And you can see down here now,
we'll hover over it.
We'll just move this up so we can see it.
"Reference to 'VineVegetable' is ambiguous,
"both 'garden.vegetable.VineVegetable'
"and 'nursery.vegetable.VineVegetable' match."
So, basically, the problem here is
we've now got ambiguous references.
We can get around that by
going back up to our import statements.
Note also that,
before I say that unused import statement,
the order is telling us that
this is not being used at the moment.
But we can get around that as I said by changing
that from a * to our VineVegetable.
And suddenly the code works again.
And if we run this to confirm
you can see the output, "I am a nursery VineVegetable."
So that's telling us that the more specific import was
the import that was used if both imports are selected.
And obviously IntelliJ is helpfully showing us that
one of the imports is not being used
by carrying it out in grey
or removing the colour to grey.
And just to confirm this, we can go back to
changing this again
.VineVegetable, specify that both of them
have already got a definition there.
That's an error.
But if you change this one to a *,
run the code.
We have now got the output for the VineVegetable class
in the garden.vegetable package.
So, if you need to use both classes
in the same source file
you can use a fully-qualified class name
for one instance
At the moment we are using garden.vegetable.VineVegetable
below that I can paste in some code
using a fully-qualified class name there
for VineVegetable from the nursery.vegetable package.
Right-click that and we now get the output from both.
Right, the other thing I want to show you now is
what happens if you try and create a class in the same file
with the same name.
So we come down.
We need to put it either before
or after the test import class.
I'm going to put it after...class.
So we have got an arrow there.
VineVegetabe is already defined in this compilation unit.
Basically, IntelliJ is identifying this as a compile error
because of the of the single-type-import statement.
We cannot now create a local class called VineVegetable.
What we can do though is go back up to where our imports.
Change both to import-on-demand declarations.
No errors.
If we run this now,
the output we get is, "I am a local VineVegetable,"
which is coming from our local class
and, "I am a nursery VineVegetable,"
which is coming from our
fully-qualified class name reference
to VineVegetable from nursery.vegetable package.
Alright and just before finishing this video,
I want to point out,
if you go back up to the import section.
If we do an import along the line of import garden.*
well that won't pull in the classes in the nested packages
but only the classes defined in this package level
So, in other words,
you wouldn't be importing garden.vegetable.VineVegetable
with that statement.
So keep that in mind as well.
Alright so I will just remove that.
Right, so I will end the video here.
In the next one,
I want to go over and start talking
about the next two types of import statements that
we originally discussed in the previous video slides.
Namely the static-import declaration
and static-import-on-demand declarations.
See you in the next video.